Report 

For this assignment, the goal was to create a program that uses the Cultural Consensus Theory (CCT) model with PyMC to analyze a fake dataset of plant knowledge. Using CCT, the informant's response depended on their competence (individual differences) and the consensus (shared similarities) of the answers to align with this theory that cultural beliefs affect our knowledge to a certain extent. The model structure has two folders: code and data. In the code folder, there is a file name called "cct.py" that contains code for this model. Diving into this section, I chose to use a Beta(2,1) for the competence Di so that it is greater than 0.5, it ranges from 0.5 to 1.0, and it accounts for the expectation of a higher competence since informants will likely know something rather than guessing. The rest of the code uses PyMC to create the model, performs inferences with PyMC’s MCMC sampler, and analyzes results. It uses all of the formulas and directions provided in the assignment’s guidelines to formulate this program. While not in the original instructions, I also added an output folder within this code folder that includes the visuals of the results that I got. Then, the second folder called data contains the “plant_knowledge.csv” that has this fake dataset that is used for this program. This is the overall structure of my program. 


The results that I got from running this program were quite successful. The competence estimates showed there was variation among the informants. As shown in the graphs and data, the lowest was informant P3 with around 0.6, while the highest competence was informant P6 with nearly 0.9. The other informants had values ranging between these two values. Meanwhile, the consensus answers varied. Some questions had a posterior probability that was close to 1 or 0, showing high certainty. As shown in the visualization, these questions include Q20, Q17, Q4, etc. The other questions that were close to 0.5 depicted a lower level of agreement amongst the informants. These questions include Q2, Q15, Q13, and more. When compared with naive aggregation, there were differences in 5 out of 20 questions. This compares to the consensus answer key estimated by the CCT model because the CCT model favors the highly competent informants over the less competent informants. Therefore, the CCT model will differ from the majority of informants when it takes the answer of the highly competent informants. These differences in the CCT’s focus on high competence compared to just majority voting overall proves the model’s purpose – to portray the cultural influences in shared, agreed beliefs and ideas. 
